Create eip-4972.md (#4972)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-4972.md

---
eip: TBD
title: Name Owned Account

> author: Undisclosed Author <IronchainDAO@gmail.com>, Qi Zhou (@qizhou)

Author: Done.  Thanks for the comment.

> discussions-to: TBD

Author: Done.  Thanks for the comment.

## Motivation
A popular way to onboard Web2 users to the Web3 world is custody. However, current custody models have severe drawbacks. Considering the following widely adopted custody models:
1. The custodian uses one EOA/CA to hold the assets of all users. This is not compatible with on-chain social protocols since all user activities are off-chain.
2. One EOA per user. The social identity is not portable, which means there is no way for users to migrate their social identity across different custody platforms.
3. One CA (e.g. Gnosis Safe) per user. The one time deployment cost is super high and the user experience is not good.

To solve all these problems, this ERC proposes a new type of account - name-owned account (NOA). An NOA has
1. a name for social identity; and
2. an address derived from the name to receive tokens; and

> 3. an owner/owners of the name that is able to transfer the token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. owner(s) of the name that can transfer the token.
```

> The name should be human-readable and can be easily recognized socially. An example is the username of a centralized platform such as FB, Twitter. The name-derived address (NDA) is a normal Ethereum address that should not collide with the existing addresses of EOA/CA. Since we cannot use NDA as msg.sender, the right to transfer the tokens of the NDA is controlled by the owner/owners of the name. The name to owner/owners mapping is managed by an on-chain name service, and the owner/owners are EOA/CA, which can be the addresses of 3-rd custodians (e.g. FB) or self-custodian. By changing the owner of the name to the EOA of the user (can be done by requesting the custodian), the NDA becomes self-custodian, and no one should be able to transfer the assets unless the approved by the self-custodian user. 

Reviewer: This paragraph seems more like specification than motivation.

Author: Thanks for the comment.  The NOA part is now moved to the "Specification" section.

Using NOA as social identity instead of EOA/CA brings huge benefits for users:
- **Easy Web2 user onboarding**. We are providing standard Web2 user experiences with human readable names and 3rd-party custody. Every user of a centralized platform can immediately have a NOA by using the username as the name of NOA custodied by the platform.
- **On-chain states**. All user states are on-chain even under custody so it’s 100% compatible with social protocols.
- **Portable Account**. A NOA can be easily ported to different custody platforms by changing the owner.
- **Flexible Account Management**. We can use one EOA/CA to control any number of NOAs.

## Specification
### Name Representation
A name is represented by a bytes array which is ABI encoded. It **MAY** contain metadata of the name such as the name service the name belongs to.  Examples of the name are "vitalik.eth", "vitalik@0x00000000000C2E074eC69A0dFb2997BA6C7d2e1e", or "qizhou.fb".

> ## Interface

Reviewer: This is not a valid section as per [EIP-1](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1)

Author: ## Interface is changed to ### Interface

### INameOwnedAccount
```
interface INameOwnedAccount {
    /// @notice This function resolves the _name to its derived address
    /// @dev The implementation SHOULD avoid collision between name 

>     /// derived address and EOA/CA

Reviewer: Do you have a recommendation for how to avoid such a collision?

Author: A recommendation can be found in "Reference Implementation" section.

The addressOfName interface decouples the implementation from specific hashing algorithms, as long as the generated address doesn’t collide with EOA/CA address space.

## Backwards Compatibility
The new account type is compatible with existing ERC token standards.

## Reference Implementation
### Name Format
The decoded format of bytes name is not defined at this standard. One straightforward implementation would be:
```
bytes memory name = abi.encode((string, ‘address’), (username, nameService))
```
where the username is the string representation of the username and nameService is the name service contract address. This will decouple the implementation from specific name services such as ENS.

### Name Derived Address (INameOwnedAccount.addressOfName())
With the bytes format mentioned above, we can follow the same rule of CREATE2 opcode to compute the NOA address from nameService and hash of the username. By restricting the deployer address as address zero we can ensure it won’t clash with existing smart contract account addresses:

> ```address(keccak256(0xff, keccak256(“eipxxxx.addressOfName”), nameService, keccak256(username)))```.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`address(keccak256(0xff, keccak256(“eipxxxx.addressOfName”), nameService, keccak256(username)))`.
```

The addressOfName interface decouples the implementation from specific hashing algorithms, as long as the generated address doesn’t collide with EOA/CA address space.

## Backwards Compatibility
The new account type is compatible with existing ERC token standards.

## Reference Implementation
### Name Format
The decoded format of bytes name is not defined at this standard. One straightforward implementation would be:
```
bytes memory name = abi.encode((string, ‘address’), (username, nameService))
```
where the username is the string representation of the username and nameService is the name service contract address. This will decouple the implementation from specific name services such as ENS.

### Name Derived Address (INameOwnedAccount.addressOfName())
With the bytes format mentioned above, we can follow the similar rule of CREATE2 opcode to compute the NOA address from nameService and hash of the username as `address(keccak256(0xff, keccak256(“eip-4972.addressOfName”), nameService, keccak256(username)))`.  This can ensure it won’t collide with existing smart contract account addresses.

### Ownership of a Name (INameOwnedAccount.isNameOwner())

> Normally we can get the owner from the name service and compare it with the message sender. We recommend the name service to define an owner function in the same format as [ENS.sol](https://github.com/ensdomains/ens/blob/master/contracts/ENS.sol).

Reviewer: Please remove this external link, or include it in the assets directory.

The isNameOwner function is sufficient for authenticating the message sender. One can verify the owner by looking up the name owner from a name service, or check zero knowledge proofs encoded in name to prove the ownership directly without looking up anything.

The addressOfName interface decouples the implementation from specific hashing algorithms, as long as the generated address doesn’t collide with EOA/CA address space.

## Backwards Compatibility
The new account type is compatible with existing ERC token standards.

## Reference Implementation
### Name Format
The decoded format of bytes name is not defined at this standard. One straightforward implementation would be:
```
bytes memory name = abi.encode((string, ‘address’), (username, nameService))
```
where the username is the string representation of the username and nameService is the name service contract address. This will decouple the implementation from specific name services such as ENS.

### Name Derived Address (INameOwnedAccount.addressOfName())

> With the bytes format mentioned above, we can follow the same rule of CREATE2 opcode to compute the NOA address from nameService and hash of the username. By restricting the deployer address as address zero we can ensure it won’t clash with existing smart contract account addresses:

Reviewer 2: "By restricting the deployer address as address zero" => "By replacing the deployer address to hash of “eip-4972.addressOfName”"

Author: This part has been reworded.

### Ownership of a Name (INameOwnedAccount.isNameOwner())
Normally we can get the owner from the name service and compare it with the message sender. We recommend the name service to define an owner function in the same format as [ENS.sol](https://github.com/ensdomains/ens/blob/master/contracts/ENS.sol).

### Example Contracts for ERC721 and ERC20 (ERC721NOA and ERC20NOA)

> The example contracts can be found at [NameOwnedAccount.sol](https://github.com/dongshu2013/b23/blob/main/contracts/contracts/identity/NameOwnedAccount.sol), [ERC721NOA.sol](https://github.com/dongshu2013/b23/blob/main/contracts/contracts/token/ERC721/ERC721NOA.sol), [ERC20NOA.sol](https://github.com/dongshu2013/b23/blob/main/contracts/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20NOA.sol).

Reviewer 2: the links need to be updated

> The example contracts can be found at [NameOwnedAccount.sol](https://github.com/NameOwnedAccount/NameOwnedAccount/blob/main/contracts/identity/NameOwnedAccount.sol), [ERC721NOA.sol](https://github.com/NameOwnedAccount/NameOwnedAccount/blob/main/contracts/token/ERC721/ERC721NOA.sol)[ERC20NOA.sol](https://github.com/NameOwnedAccount/NameOwnedAccount/blob/main/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20NOA.sol).

Reviewer 3: Don't link externally.  Either remove this text if it isn't critical, or if the code is CC0 licensed include it inline or in `../assets/eip-4972/*`

Author: Thanks.  Just removed.

---
eip: 4972

> title: Name Owned Account

Reviewer 4: To use hyphen or not should be standardized.

> title: Name Owned Account

Author: Thanks for the suggestion.  Update the proposal with hyphenized term `Name-Owned Account` .

The addressOfName interface decouples the implementation from specific hashing algorithms, as long as the generated address doesn’t collide with EOA/CA address space.

## Backwards Compatibility
The new account type is compatible with existing ERC token standards.

## Reference Implementation
### Name Format
The decoded format of bytes name is not defined at this standard. One straightforward implementation would be:
```
bytes memory name = abi.encode((string, ‘address’), (username, nameService))
```
where the username is the string representation of the username and nameService is the name service contract address. This will decouple the implementation from specific name services such as ENS.

### Name Derived Address (INameOwnedAccount.addressOfName())
With the bytes format mentioned above, we can follow the similar rule of CREATE2 opcode to compute the NOA address from nameService and hash of the username as `address(keccak256(0xff, keccak256(“eip-4972.addressOfName”), nameService, keccak256(username)))`.  This can ensure it won’t collide with existing smart contract account addresses.

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

### Ownership of a Name (INameOwnedAccount.isNameOwner())
Normally we can get the owner from the name service and compare it with the message sender. We recommend the name service to define an owner function in the same format as ENS.

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
